\textbf{Abstract.} This document describes how existing design
patterns can be combined to merge their advantages into one
domain- independent software framework. This framework, called
\emph{Cybernetics Oriented Programming} (CYBOP) \cite{cyberlink},
is characterized by flexibility and extensibility. Further, the
concept of \emph{Ontology} is used to structure the software
architecture as well as to keep it maintainable. A \emph{Component
Lifecycle} ensures the proper startup and shutdown of any systems
built on top
of CYBOP.\\
The practical proof of these new concepts was accomplished within
the diploma thesis of Jens Bohl \cite{reform} which consisted of
designing and developing a module called \emph{Record}, of the
\emph{Open Source Software} (OSS) project \emph{Res Medicinae}.
The major task for this module is to provide a user interface for
creating medical documentation. New structure models such as
\emph{Episodes} were considered and implemented. In this context,
the integration of a graphical tool for \emph{Topological
Documentation} was also highly demanded. The tool allows
documentation with the help of anatomical images and the setting
of markers for pathological findings.

\textbf{Keywords.} Design Pattern, Framework, Component Lifecycle,
Ontology, CYBOP, Res Medicinae, Episode Based Documentation,
Topological Documentation
